F1 and F2 while viewing the system map provide quick useful overlays.
Mech variants of the same chassis can be combined when building.
A 3049 start will look much like 3025 to start with, but the technology used by the 5 Great Houses will change a lot over the years.
Apocryphal weapons such as Coil Guns, or out of timeline weapons like Snub Nose PPCs are now extremely rare finds on Research planets.
Clan missions are a whole new scale of difficulty, make your first Clan mission a half skull mission.
On Star League presence or ComStar presence planets it is possible the Com Guard, and later the Word of Blake may make an appearance in mission. A rare sight, they will likely be using a lot of Star League technology.
Pirate's, and Criminal's 'Mechs will be, to varying degrees, based on where in space you are. Pirates in Steiner space may be using Commandos while Davion based pirates will more likely use the Valkyrie.
Mech variant salvage can only be combined together if the same engine is used and there is not different technology. An Endo Steel chassis cannot be combined with a standard chassis for example.
Loading a game while within a game can cause a crash. Return to the main menu before loading to reduce the chance.
Shift Clicking an item in the timeline will speed up time until the next event or the clicked event occurs, whichever is first.  This can increase the speed of travel by a lot.
When looking at 'Mech parts, the salvage numbers tell you A(B)/C(D); A: number of parts of this variant, B: number of parts of all compatible variants, C: complete 'Mechs of this type you own, D: parts needed to build a 'Mech.
A kill indicated in red in the post mission report, indicates a kill by enemy pilot ejection.
You can hover the mouse over a unit's insignia to read some background about them, on the system map or after a mission, in the post mission report.
You can hover the mouse over a unit's insignia to see the expected equipment rating they will be using.
Atmosphere: Under low or no atmospheric conditions ballistic maximum ranges are increased while missile damage is decreased. Low atmosphere is affected half as much as no atmosphere.
Gravity: Low or high gravity will increase or decrease, respectively, the jump range provided per Jump Jet installed in a BattleMech. Jump Jet heat costs the same even after affects of gravity.
Gravity: Death From Above damage is reduced or increased under low or high gravity conditions, respectively.
Humidity: Coastal and Jungle maps have a chance to have humid conditions. Due to light refraction humidity will reduce the damage from energy weapons based on the level of humidity.
A Gale will reduce the chance to hit with missile weapons by +1. A Strong Gale will reduce missile weapon accuracy by +2, and ballistic accuracy by +1.
Rain will reduce weapon accuracy by 1, Heavy Rain, usually affecting Jungle biomes, will also reduce movement speed.
When low light conditions are affecting accuracy a target becomes easier to hit as it heats up.
UAC weapons can be switched between Single Fire and Rapid fire with the middle mouse button in mission. The AI will also use this to it's advantage.
LBX Cluster munitions are ideal for seeking crits in stripped locations or for seeking Motive Engine crits on vehicles.
SRM inferno ammo has a chance to explode if you go over the overheat threshold, applying massive heat.
An SRM 2 is more accurate than an SRM 4. Both are more accurate than an SRM 6.
Respect the OpFor or die. They're not playing around, you shouldn't either.
Ctrl-A toggles through aura modes, showing ECM and other range circles.
Screenshots: Use Ctrl-Shift-I to activate debug mode. You can then hide UI with Ctrl-Shift-U. Sometimes takes a few presses.
Use Tab to cycle through your units.
Specializations can be reset for a given pilot by control-clicking the "Service Record" tab in the Barracks (requires Argo Training Module 2).
TAG marked targets will have indirect fire and evasion ignored for all attacks by standard LRMs.
While jump jets increase the chance of evading enemy fire, they also reduce your weapon accuracy.
Walking generates 3 heat, Running 6, Sprinting 9 heat.
WALK or a RUN? Running a mech adds +2 difficulty to hit with weapons as well as additional heat.
Engines will be destroyed, disabling the 'Mech once they take 4 crits. MG's are perfect for this.
How much of a 'Mech is salvaged after a mission is based on the amount of structure damaged, not destroyed locations like in vanilla.
Put Dekker in the Spider. He'll be fine.
You live and learn. Or you don't live long.
Incoming fire has the right of way.
Morals are one thing. Survival is everything.
Good fortune often happens when opportunity meets with preparation.
The Star League. A single man ruled 3,000 star systems. The Lords Davion, Kurita, Steiner, Marik, and Liao deferred to his will. 
War is never really won by anyone who participates in it. War simply rearranges the way things were and steals the promise of tomorrow from each side.
The Star League era, dating from 2571 to 2751, marked the Golden Age of Humankind.
In every society, you will find the dualism of Man and his work. There is no good without evil, no civilization without barbarism, no life without death.
"Pray God this is really the end of it all. No throne is worth what we've paid today." — First Prince Alexander Davion, after the Battle of Robinson, 2540
The noonday suns burn / the dozing Dragon. He'll wake / when the suns must set. — Battle haiku sent by Coordinator Minoru Kurita to all troops, First Succession War.
Smoke rises from ruins. / Our 'Mechs destroy and spit death / at innocents. Shame. — Haiku found on the body of a Kurita officer who committed suicide during the Kentares Massacre
Might makes Kurita / Pillar of Dragon steel / Victory over all! — Traditional Kurita haiku
The Steiners might be good at making others feel an important part of the government, but don't be fooled. They rule the Commonwealth with an iron hand.
'In this world, there is only blood and gold.' — Ancient Terran saying incorporated into the Charter of the Capellan Republic
'It is not that we love war so much... all of us simply got tired of peace.' — Attributed to Capellan Chancellor Barbara Liao
"Godspeed to all of you." — General Kerensky's fleetwide message, Jan 23 2777
No innocent man ever rebelled against lawful authority, and we, the Star League, are the Law. — Coordinator Hehiro Kurita
"DFA," or "Dude, F'n A," is an infectious drinking game popularized by candid Solaris VII partycam footage.
Brace your destabilized 'Mechs before giving them any bad news.
The Lyran Commonwealth, led by House Steiner, began as a merger of mercantile alliances. It remains astoundingly German to this day.
Vehicles take great pleasure in seeing you suffer.
After moving in combat, if there are no enemies in range, Brace your 'Mech against the futility of life and this endless struggle.
Citizenship in the Capellan Confederation is a point of pride for many. Service guarantees citizenship. Would you like to know more?
MechWarriors who are incapacitated in combat still have a chance to survive and bankrupt you with medical bills.
Each shot of an Autocannon after the first suffers a Recoil penalty that lowers its chance to hit. You will probably keep shooting regardless.
The Succession Wars between the Great Houses of the Inner Sphere have continued with little interruption since 2786.
Never turn your back on an enemy.
That which does not kill you has made a tactical error.
The pen is mightiest when it writes orders for more swords.
In 2766, Stefan Amaris of the Rim Worlds Republic launched a bloody revolt that destroyed the Star League.
Hyperpulse Generators, controlled exclusively by ComStar, allow near-instantaneous video communication across vast interstellar distances.
The Succession Wars destroyed Star League factories, making BattleMechs hard to maintain and produce. Much is now LosTech.
The Succession Wars began in 2786 when Minoru Kurita of the Draconis Combine declared himself First Lord of the Star League.
Gladiatorial 'Mech combat takes place on the world of Solaris VII, and is broadcast and wagered on throughout known space.
The Free Worlds League is the oldest of the Successor States, founded by House Marik in 2271.
Originally a representative democracy, the maneuverings of House Davion transformed the Federated Suns into a monarchy.
The Ares Conventions of 2412 established rules for modern combat, forbidding the use of nuclear and biological weapons and orbital bombardment.
The union of two breakaway factions from the Oberon Confederation in 3028 created the Greater Valkyrate, a Bandit Kingdom that kept the Oberon Confederation in check as their strong antagonist. It was notable for emphasizing the dominance of women over men.
The Greater Valkyrate, Oberon Confederation and others were summarily overrun and vanquished during the Clan Invasion in 3049.
The Clan Invasion of 3049 smashed the Valkyrate. Forces from Clan Jade Falcon overran their worlds, destroying the Second Battalion of Ryan's Rebels on Last Chance.
Incensed at the expulsion of her lover, Maria Morgraine broke away from the Oberon Confederation with some loyal followers. They settled on the frozen world Götterdämmerung and declared it the capital of their new pirate kingdom, Morgraine's Valkyrate, in 3021.
In 3045, ComStar reportedly lost all contact with Oberon VI as well as the Elysian Fields, Oberon's protectorate. It was not considered very unusual in this unstable region and thought to be a consequence of an internal coup, or simply an equipment failure.
In 3049, the worlds of the Oberon Confederation were quickly overrun as the Clan Invasion tore through them. Forces from Clan Wolf defeated the defenders in short order, their technology ahead of the defenders by centuries.
A collection of just four worlds, the Illyrian Palatinate survives through modest trade with the Free Worlds League, primarily in iron ore and processed steel.
The Illyrian Palatinate was founded in the mid 24th century during the colonization waves spurred into action by the breakup of the old Terran Hegemony.
In 2784, the Star League Defense Force initiated Operation EXODUS. This allowed Circinus, a former member world of the Rim Worlds Republic that had been occupied by the SLDF, to assert independence as the Circinus Federation.
The Circinus Federation attempted a long-planned invasion of the Illyrian Palatinate in 3034, which rapidly proved to be a disaster. 
The Circinus Federation is, at least theoretically, a representative democracy. No legislative branch of their government exists of course.
Within The Rift at the edge of Lyran space once existed a Periphery power that brought the end of the Star League, the Rim Worlds Republic.
The Rim Collection is a small democratic Periphery state consisting of former Rim Worlds Republic worlds. The popular movement to found a new nation, dubbed the Unification Movement, began in the late 3030s.
The St Ives Compact was formed in 3029 as a direct result of the Fourth Succession War. Duchess Candace Liao, firstborn of Chancellor Maximilian Liao and his heir, fell in love with Justin Xiang Allard, a Federated Suns spy, and fled her home nation.
CCAF attacks on civilian targets in the St Ives Compact serve to disrupt the small nation, since the Confederation lacks the military might to go to war with the Federated Suns, their protector.
The Tortuga Dominions is a bandit kingdom in the Periphery from which occasional raids are launched against the Federated Suns and the Taurian Concordat in search of plunder.
As the Succession Wars engulfed the remains of the Star League, raiding forces from the Tortuga Dominions would earning a lasting reputation for utter depravity, cruelty and ruthlessness.
Antallos is home to outlaws aligned with every major organized crime syndicate within the Inner Sphere; pirates and renegades, outcasts, prospectors, adventurers, and political extremists.
The Marian Hegemony has spent a century preying upon nearby trade routes and worlds as a means of keeping their economy functioning. 
The Antallos Pirates are a weathered band of corsairs, mystic brigands, philosopher-smugglers and desert raiders, who speak in parables while robbing you blind.
Antallos Pirates see wealth, fate, and violence as natural parts of the cosmic order. Their spirituality does not make them kinder.
The Aurigan Pirates are a motley collection of raiders and outlaw scavengers, plaguing independent worlds and system traffic thought the Reach. 
The asteroid belts of Star's End have a haunting reputation for murderous scav crews, who hit isolated vessels and strip them to down empty wrecks, leaving no trace of the crew.
The Chaos March pirates are a collection of renegade mercenaries and former planetary forces, who thrive on the instability of the region.
Marian Pirate Legions are usually endorsed by the Marian Hegemony Senate, with the goal of inflicting instability on neighboring systems.
Oberon Reavers are feared pirate bands raiding out from a feared region of space - the Oberon Confederation.
The Rim Worlds Pirates are an organized gang of outlaw salvage teams and mech chop-shops, creating a steady flow of illegal parts to independent worlds along the frontier.
Santander V, also known as Santander's World, is the capital world of a bandit kingdom. All outlaws in this region pay homage to the Pirate King, Helmar Valasek.
Valkyrate pirates originate from the rough bandit kingdom of the Greater Valkyrate, and are notable for emphasizing the dominance of women over men.
Found throughout human-occupied space, the Mafia accepts all into its ranks who are willing to protect "the Family." 
The Beroski Family are known to be involved in various criminal activities, from drug trafficking and prostitution to racketeering and smuggling.
The Malthus Syndicate are institutionalized corruption. They have spent centuries blurring the line between corporation, noble house, political machine, gambling empire, and criminal cartel.
For the Malthus Syndicate, everyone has a price and everything is ultimately a transaction.
Unlike the Circinus Federation, which at least pretends to be a functioning state, Circinus Raiders are little more than roaming warbands held together by greed, fear and charisma.
To a raider, civilized behavior is viewed as weakness. Mercy is expensive. The future is somebody else's problem.
The Circinus Federation likes to pretend it is a respectable frontier republic of farmers, traders, and independent citizens. In reality, much of its power rests on the Black Warriors, a feared pirate and raider force.
The Tortuga pirates are among the closest thing the 31st century has to the romantic image of pirates — at least from a distance. Up close, they're still criminals, slavers, raiders, and smugglers.
Unlike pirates who revel in chaos, the Red Cobra Triad profits from order. Their businesses revolve around narcotics, gambling, vice, smuggling, protection rackets, and black-market trade.
The Red Cobra Triad rarely makes direct threats. They don't need to. Consequences are simply understood.
Taurians value self-reliance, civic duty, education, and personal liberty, but they also possess a frontier stubbornness that borders on paranoia when foreign powers are involved.
The Taurian Concordat is fiercely independent, heavily armed, and deeply suspicious of the Inner Sphere — especially House Davion.
The Lyran Commonwealth is wealthy, aristocratic, and industrially powerful. Its officials often speak with confidence born from immense resources and social prestige.
The Free Worlds League is politically fractured, commercially minded, and highly pragmatic.
The Magistracy of Canopus presents itself as a society of personal freedom and refined pleasure, but underneath lies a pragmatic state that understands leverage, trade, and influence very well.
The Marian Hegemony is militaristic, hierarchical, expansionist, and deeply conscious of status and authority.
The Capellan Confederation is proud, politically conscious, and deeply concerned with loyalty, stability, and state authority. 
Capellan officials often speak with calculated politeness layered over suspicion and ideological conviction.
The Draconis Combine is authoritarian, militaristic, and intensely concerned with duty, hierarchy, and obedience. 
While rooted in old Japanese cultural traditions, the Draconis Combine of the 31st century is a vast interstellar state where military honor and service to the Coordinator outweigh individual concerns.
The Federated Suns projects confidence, patriotism, and military professionalism. Davion officers tend to view themselves as defenders of order and stability.
The Cloak Syndicate sells itself as the friend of forgotten people: feeding the poor, protecting neighborhoods, and humiliating corrupt authorities. In reality, they are a predatory criminal enterprise.
Cloak Syndicate leaders are perfectly aware of the hypocrisy of their actions. To them, “helping the people” is simply good business: desperate populations are loyal populations after all.
The Treaty of Taurus, signed in 3056, included provisions for the "Lewis and Clark Project", the joint settlement of a New Colony Region in empty space between the Magistracy of Canopus and Taurian Concordat.
The Outworlds Alliance is weary, isolated, yet quietly proud. Once prosperous and hopeful, centuries of decline have left much of the Alliance impoverished and technologically degraded.
The leaders of the Outworlds Alliance have to balance military necessity against humanitarian collapse, trying to preserve order while their worlds slide toward desperation and revolt.
The Rim Collection is idealistic but wary: a small state trying to reclaim the better legacy of the old Rim Worlds Republic while surviving in a hostile Inner Sphere that remembers only Amaris.
The Wolf’s Dragoons represent the gold standard of mercenary conduct in the Inner Sphere: disciplined, honourable, and highly professional.
Even in the 31st century, the Yakuza maintain a strong cultural identity rooted in old Terra-era Japanese customs, adapted into a vast interstellar criminal network.
Man-TLE is slick, modern, and deeply cynical — part entertainment distributor, part narcotics cartel.
Founded in 3016, the mysterious Man-TLE sprung up as a manufacturer of True Life Experiences, bootleg and low-grade knockoffs of Kensai Holographiks' Recreational Hologram Environments to include narcotic sensory impacts.
The Beroski Family projects tradition, loyalty, respect, and “family values” while operating a sprawling criminal empire of racketeering, smuggling, vice, bribery, and contractual violence.
The Yihzi Tong is said to possess a rigid hierarchy, strong internal discipline and a fanatically loyal membership. They are commonly involved in gambling, narcotics, prostitution, smuggling, extortion, and other organized criminal enterprises.
The infamous Rostakov Tong's reputation is built on the idea that if someone challenges their territory, their businesses, or their authority, the response will be immediate, public, and memorable.
Following his defection to the Federated Suns in early 3029, Capellan Confederation Colonel Pavel Ridzik established his own fiefdom - the Tikonov Free Republic. It would be ill-fated.
The Chaos March region is a confused warzone. With the system in constant turmoil and fleets of multiple houses constantly passing through, it is all too easy for rogue elements to pass through undetected.
The Arc-Royal Defense Cordon was a region of space in the Lyran Alliance ruled by Grand Duke Morgan Kell from 3057 until 3067.
An oddity even among the strange worlds of the Periphery, the Elysian Fields was a private hold of the Inheritor philosophic movement and later the One Star Faith. 
The Elysian Fields are a de-facto protectorate of the Oberon Confederation, to whom they have forsworn all military.
The Oberon Confederation wants to be seen as a legitimate state, but underneath the paint it's still a pirate kingdom, with slavery and extortion still common.
Under House Humphreys Andurien was a restive province with a strong anti-Marik bias, which led it to secede from the Free Worlds League in 3030.
The Duchy of Andurien was considered a particularly open and enlightened form of this government, with citizens enjoying substantial freedoms. 
All warfare is based on deception. - Sun Tzu
He will win who knows when to fight and when not to fight. - Sun Tzu
We cannot enter into alliances until we are acquainted with the designs of our neighbors. - Sun Tzu
Hold out baits to entice the enemy. Feign disorder, and crush him. - Sun Tzu
Let your plans be dark and impenetrable as night, and when you move, fall like a thunderbolt. - Sun Tzu
Opportunities multiply as they are seized. - Sun Tzu
Point us at the target and wire the funds.
Double the pay, double the loyalty.
We don't chase glory — we chase invoices.
Honor is free. We aren’t.
Mercy costs extra.
You want commitment? Add a zero.
We fight the battles others can’t — or won’t.
Heroes die. Professionals withdraw with salvage.
Heroes get monuments. Mercs get invoices.
A clean death is the rarest luxury in this business.
Mech runs on three things: ammo, coolant, and sheer denial.
My Mech isn’t overheating. It’s just passionate.
In the desert, heat kills Mechs before enemies do.
Humidity turns every cockpit into a sauna of regret.
Collateral damage? Contract says don’t ask.
Heat doesn't dissipate in vacuum — plan accordingly.
Mercenaries live by contracts — and die by them too.
Every Mech has a story. Some end in glory, others in scrap.
Salvage is king. Kill carefully.
Scout Mechs die first — unless they’re piloted smart.
Bushido doesn't mean mercy. Strike swiftly, and without hesitation. - Kuritan proverb
Taurians may be outgunned, but never out-willed.
Guerrilla tactics and stubborn pilots — Taurian trademarks.
Flexible units, unpredictable tactics — Canopian forces are full of surprises.
Low tech doesn’t mean low threat — Outworlders make every shot count.
Simple Mechs, smart tactics. Keep it lean and lethal.
Glory to the Republic! And the autocannon. - Marian Hegemony
Life on the fringe teaches harsh lessons — usually through lasers.
Never assume a backwater pilot can't outfight you.
Pirates don’t play fair — so neither should you.
Expect ambushes. Expect salvage. Expect betrayal.
Pirates may pilot junk — but a lucky hit still kills.
If it looks like a trap, it probably is.
Pirates don't care about honor — only loot and survival.
C-Bills talk. Morals walk.
You’re only as good as your last contract.
Always pack spares — for parts, ammo, and pilots.
A good mercenary knows when to fight — and when to leave.
Your next employer could be your next enemy — stay sharp.
A clean evac is a win. Don't die for a bonus clause.
We don't fight for free — and we don’t fight fair.
You want glory? Join the Lyrans. We’re here to get paid.
Loyalty doesn’t pay for repairs. C-Bills do.
We’re all just meat in the cockpit.
Equipment is key. A well equipped Light can kill a poorly equipped Assault.
Instability removes evasion. Perfect for a follow-up volley.
Ammo explodes. Don't have too much of it. Also, don't run out of ammo. 
Plan your lance according to the range & strategy you intend to use.
Watch your heat. Riding the red line will shut you down or blow you sky high.
Failure is always a possibility.
Riding the red line is dangerous.
Darius has no idea what he's talking about.
The XO is actively trying to kill you.
Dictate the engagement, don't be dictated to.
Any shot not taken is a miss.
Old age and treachery always overcomes youth and enthusiasm.
We ride the tempest, we bring the storm.
High Risk. High Pay. High Adventure!
Seize The Day.
Our wrath falls from the heavens.
Executing Order 66.
Director Espinosa sees himself as a necessary ruler in a dangerous age. To him, harsh measures are regrettable but necessary.
The Aurigan Directorate does not ask for cooperation so much as expects it.
